README.md, before:

# 🦠 Plague Yard

Welcome to your peaceful yard. Well, it used to be peaceful... A terrible plague has overrun the city and now hordes of creatures are invading your sanctuary!

**You will protect your yard at all costs!**

![Plague Yard Gameplay](screenshot.gif)



## 🎮 Features

- **Roguelike Gameplay** - Every playthrough is unique
- **Multiple Enemy Types** - Some move slow and hit hard, others pester you like (dangerous!) mosquitos
- **Progressive Difficulty** - Challenge scales dynamically with your player level
- **Character Progression** - Level up to increase your stats and survivability
- **Survival Timer** - Compete against your previous best runs
- **Retro Art** - Classic arcade-style visuals

## 🕹️ Controls

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| **Arrow Keys** / **WASD** / **ZQSD** | Move your character |
| **Spacebar** | Restart game when game over |

## 🚀 Installation

1. **Install Python** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install python3
   ```

2. **Install pygame**:
   ```bash
   pip install pygame
   ```

3. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/frsantens/plague-yard
   ```

4. **Run the game**:
   ```bash
   cd plague-yard
   python3 main.py
   ```

## ⚙️ Configuration

Check the `constants.py` file to customize game settings and difficulty parameters.

---

**Built with Python and pygame v2.6.1**

Commit message:

V 1.5 - lots of polish and new features

README.md, after:

# 🦠 Plague Yard

Welcome to your peaceful yard. Well, it used to be peaceful... A terrible plague has overrun the city and now hordes of creatures are invading your sanctuary!

**You will protect your yard at all costs!**

Gameplay from old version, more polish in current version!
![Plague Yard Gameplay](screenshot.gif)



## 🎮 Features

- **Roguelike Gameplay** - Every playthrough is unique
- **Multiple Enemy Types** - Some move slow and hit hard, others pester you like (dangerous!) mosquitos
- **Progressive Difficulty** - Challenge scales dynamically with your player level
- **Character Progression** - Level up to increase your stats and survivability
- **Shock attack** - Attack enemies with a chaining electric shock
- **Survival Timer** - Compete against your previous best runs
- **Retro Art** - Classic arcade-style visuals

## 🕹️ Controls

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| **Arrow Keys** / **WASD** / **ZQSD** | Move your character |
| **Spacebar** | Restart game when game over |
| **F** | Pause or unpause game |


## 🚀 Installation

1. **Install Python** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   sudo apt-get install python3
   ```

2. **Install pygame**:
   ```bash
   pip install pygame
   ```

3. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/frsantens/plague-yard
   ```

4. **Run the game**:
   ```bash
   cd plague-yard
   python3 main.py
   ```

## ⚙️ Configuration

Check the `constants.py` file to customize game settings and difficulty parameters.

---

**Built with Python and pygame v2.6.1**
